## WIPER CONTROL SYSTEM
# INTRODUCTION:
These days, even non-luxury compact and family cars are available with rain-sensing wipers. These systems utilize an LED sensor, fitted between the windshield and rearview mirror, to detect the amount of rain or snow falling on the windshield.There are a number of infrared light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and a central photodiode which make up the “rain sense” portion of the system.The invisible light emitted by the LEDs is reflected by the windshield onto the photo sensor. Therefore the more moisture there is on the windshield, the less light the sensor receives. This information is subsequently relayed to a computer control unit, which then adjusts the intermittent wiper delay intervals of the accordingly.The wetter it gets, the faster the rain sensing wipers work to help give you a clear view of what's in front of you. When the system senses drier conditions, such as when the vehicle is stopped at a red light and the rain is falling less intensely, the wipers will gradually slow down before switching themselves off when no longer needed.

# Objectives:
The automated rain wiper system is used to detect rainfall and activate automobile rain wiper automatically without driver interaction. The system is developed to mitigate driving distractions and allow drivers to focus on their primary task of driving. The distraction eliminated with the development of this product is the manual adjustment of windshield wipers when driving in precipitation. The few seconds that a driver takes their attention off the road to adjust a knob while driving in poor weather conditions could potentially lead to car accidents.The system uses a combination of impedance and rain sensor to detect rain and its intensity. The system contains a controller that takes in the input signals from the sensors and controls the operation of the windshield wipers based on those input signals The aim of this project is to help reduce accidents that happen as a result of the driver intending to clean the windscreen when rain is falling thereby taking the attention of the driver off the road when he or she is switching on and off the wiper. In rainy days we suffer from the act of sprinkling of water on the front glass of our wheeler. While driving, when drivers cannot see visibly on-road vehicles they try operating the wiper on glass manually, at times switching on and off intermittently and this distraction might cause vehicle accident. If we apply any kind of sensor on glass which senses the act of sprinkling water, by automation, the wiper will be operating automatically. When the water hit the sensor, it will send a signal to the system thus triggering the wiper motor. Once the sensor does not detect any water, the wiper will stop. This will reduce the human interface that has been stated earlier. An addition to this invention is that the wiper automatically push up from the windscreen when the engine is shut off.

# DESCRIPTION:
Windshield wipers keep the windshield of a vehicle clear from rain water, snow, dust and road spray. The first windshield wipers were operated manually by moving a lever inside the car. Later wiper designs were powered by the engine's manifold vacuum. Virtually all wipers today employ an electric motor coupled with a linkage mechanism and are actuated by a knob beside the steering wheel. The wiper blade speed can be adjusted by the driver.

Modern windshield wipers may also be run intermittently. The intermittent wiper option cycles the wipers on and off every few seconds rather than running constantly. Intermittent control first appeared in automobiles in the 1970's. The original intermittent wipers were controlled by a constant power source that was routed through a series of switches. Now, virtually all automotive wipers are controlled by a microprocessor.
